Pages: 3

--- PAGE 1 ---
INFORMATION ABOUT THE HUNGARIAN CULTURAL KNOWLEDGE EXAM
For applications for a National Residence Card or EU Residence Card, third-country nationals
must successfully pass the Hungarian Cultural Knowledge Exam (hereafter: the exam) to
demonstrate compliance with social integration requirements.
Social integration requirements do not apply for applications for a National Residence Card issued
for national interest.
Unless proven otherwise, a person is considered a third-country national if they are not an EEA
citizen and:
a) They use a valid travel document issued by a third country (recognized by Hungary as
a document permitting border crossing, such as a passport, identity card, or certificate
confirming identity and nationality or statelessness).
b) They cannot reasonably prove their right to free movement and residence, or
c) No state recognizes them as a citizen under its own laws (stateless).
Applicants must take the exam before the person responsible for organizing the exam and
demonstrate in writing their knowledge of European and Hungarian history and culture.
The exam language is Hungarian.
APPLICATION PROCESS
Applications for the exam can be submitted to the Government Office of Budapest. The application
form must be accompanied by:
• A copy of a travel document recognized by Hungary for border crossing, confirming the
holder’s identity and nationality or statelessness.
• Proof of payment of the exam fee.
Applications and attachments should be sent to kepzes.budapest@bfkh.gov.hu or by mail to
Budapest Főváros Kormányhivatala, 1364 Budapest, Pf. 234. It is recommended to fill out the
application electronically for better legibility.
The application form is available in downloadable and editable format on our website and on the
official website of the Government Office of Budapest.
Please let us know if you need any assistance with applying for the exam by writing to your
dedicated immigration specialist or reach out to us at info@viahungary.com, subject:
Hungarian Cultural Exam – your name.

--- PAGE 2 ---
EXAM SCHEDULING
Exam dates are assigned in order of application, considering the number of applicants and cost-
efficiency.
Applicants are notified of the exam date in writing at least 15 working days before the exam via
the contact information provided during registration.
The exam organizer reserves the right to change the exam dates.
Only applicants who present a valid travel document recognized by Hungary or a certificate
confirming statelessness, and have paid the exam fee, are allowed to take the exam.
EXAM FEE
The exam fee is 20,000 HUF per attempt, payable exclusively by bank transfer to the account
number 10023002-00299592-00000000 at the Hungarian State Treasury, held by the Government
Office of Budapest.
In the payment reference, please include: “name, magyar kulturális ismereti vizsga”.
EXAM REQUIREMENTS AND TOPICS
The exam covers the following topics:
• National symbols and holidays of Hungary (coat of arms, flag, crown, National Anthem,
National Song, national holidays)
• Key events in Hungarian history (foundation of the state, 1848–49 revolution and war of
independence, Treaty of Trianon, 1956 revolution, 1990 regime change)
• Influential figures in European and Hungarian literature and music history
• Fundamental institutions of the Constitution (Parliament, President of the Republic,
Government)
• Basic citizen rights and obligations (freedoms, citizen duties, and protection of rights)
• Europe and Hungary in everyday life
Study materials for the exam are available on our website and on the official website of the
Government Office of Budapest. Please note that the language of the exam is Hungarian. The
unofficial English study guide aims only to assist you in better understanding the material.
The official material is, and should be learnt, in Hungarian.

--- PAGE 3 ---
EXAM LOCATION
Government Office of Budapest: 1138 Budapest, Váci út 174.
Please note: Parking is not available at the venue. Vehicles can only be parked on public streets
for a fee.
EXAM DAY SCHEDULE
• 8:30 – 9:00: Registration and document verification
• 9:00 – 10:00: Written exam
• 12:00: Announcement of results and distribution of exam records
EXAM FORMAT
The exam consists of 12 questions, with a duration of 60 minutes.
There are 2 questions from each of the 6 topics, totalling 30 points.
To pass, a minimum of 16 points (50% plus 1 point) is required, resulting in a "pass" rating.
Scores between 0-15 points are considered a “failure”.
If an applicant fails the exam three times, they will be denied registration for another
attempt.
NO-SHOW OR CANCELLATION
If the applicant does not attend or cancels the exam for reasons attributable to them and does not
provide an official document justifying their absence within 2 working days after the exam, the
paid exam fee will not be refunded, and the exam will be marked as a "failure”. If a valid justification
is submitted within the deadline, a new exam date may be assigned.
EXAM RESULTS
The Government Office of Budapest will issue an exam record, which will be handed over to the
applicant after the conclusion of the exam.
RELEVANT LEGISLATION
• Act XC of 2023 on the general rules of entry and residence of third-country nationals
• Government Decree 35/2024 (II. 29.) on the implementation of the general rules of entry
and residence of third-country nationals
CONTACT INFORMATION
Government Office of Budapest: kepzes.budapest@bfkh.gov.hu
viaHungary: info@viahungary.com

